### Source code:

`A program written in a high level programming language is call a source code ( in contrast to the ma hine code executed by computers).`

### Source file:

`The file containing the source code is called the source file`

### Compilation:

`The source program is translated once by getting a file containing the machine code. Now we can distribute the file worldwide; the program that performs this translation is called a compiler or translator.`

### Interpretation:

`We can translate the source program each time it has to be run. The program performing this kind of tranformation is called an interpreter, as it interprets the code every time it is intended to be executed. It also means that we cannot just distribute the source code as-is, becayse the end-user also needs the interpreter to execute it.`

Due to some very fundamental reasons, a particular high-level programming language is designed to fall into one of these two categories.

There are very few languages that can be both compiled and interpreted. Usually, a programming language is projected with this factor in its constructors' minds – will it be compiled or interpreted?

- # read-check-execute

### What does this all mean for us?

- Python is an interpreted language. This means that it inherits all the described advantages and disadvantages. Of course, it adds some of its unique features to both sets.
- If we want to program in Python, we'll need the Python interpreter. we won't be able to run our code without it. Fortunately, Python is free. This is one of its most important advantages.
  Due to historical reasons, languages designed to be utilized in the interpretation manner are often called scripting languages, while the source programs encoded using them are called scripts. Okay, let's meet Python.
